=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

SPVM::Document::ExchangeAPI - Exchange API

=head1 What is Exchange API

Exchange API is perl functions to exchange Perl data to SPVM data, and reverse.
  
  use SPVM 'SomeModule';
  
  # Convert Perl array reference to SPVM int array
  my $spvm_nums = SPVM::new_int_array([1, 2, 3]);
  
  # Convert SPVM int array to Perl array reference
  my $nums = $spvm_nums->to_elements;

=head1 Functions

=head2 new_byte_array

  my $spvm_array = SPVM::new_byte_array([1, 2, 3]);

Convert Perl array reference to SPVM byte array.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

=head2 new_short_array

  my $spvm_array = SPVM::new_short_array([1, 2, 3]);

Convert Perl array reference to SPVM short array.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

=head2 new_int_array

  my $spvm_array = SPVM::new_int_array([1, 2, 3]);

Convert Perl array reference to SPVM int array.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

=head2 new_long_array

  my $spvm_array = SPVM::new_long_array([1, 2, 3]);

Convert Perl array reference to SPVM long array.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

=head2 new_float_array

  my $spvm_array = SPVM::new_float_array([0.5, 0.1, 0.3]);

Convert Perl array reference to SPVM float array.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

=head2 new_double_array

  my $spvm_array = SPVM::new_double_array([0.5, 0.1, 0.3]);

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

=head2 new_object

  my $object = SPVM::new_object("Point");

Create SPVM object with package name.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data> object.

Method is called from this object if method defined.

  $object->x(3);
  $object->clear;

=head2 new_object_array

  my $array = SPVM::new_object_array("TestCase", [$object1, $object2]);

Convert Perl array reference which contains SPVM object to SPVM object array.

Return value is L<SPVM::Data::Array> object.

An example:
  
  use SPVM 'Point';
  my $spvm_point1 = SPVM::new_object("Point");
  my $spvm_point2 = SPVM::new_object("Point");
  my $spvm_points = SPVM::new_object_array("Point", [$spvm_point1, $spvm_point2]);
